 Authorship and AI tools | COPE: Committee on Publication Ethics Skip page header and navigation Welcome to our new website. While most COPE resources have moved here, including membership applications, our membership area will look the same for a while as we continue to redevelop our website. Visit membership area Dismiss message Login Login Open menu Close menu Guidance and tools div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="1"> Getting started Begin your journey in publication ethics and learn the principles for best practices in scholarly publishing. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="2"> Guidance Search our guidance for advice and guidelines. Search now div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="3"> Member tools Find further advice and resources to support your practice, and where to update your details. Find out more COPE Focus div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="1"> What is COPE Focus? Carefully chosen collections of our most important resources on a topic. View COPE Focus Discussion div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="1"> Topic discussions Topic discussions bring members and others in scholarly publishing together to explore solutions on publication ethics issues. Join the discussion Membership div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="1"> Membership Understand what being a member of COPE means, and how members can manage their membership. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="2"> Becoming a COPE Member Join a global community dedicated to upholding integrity in scholarly publishing. For anyone involved in research publication. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="3"> Find a member Our member directory hasn't moved to our new website, but it's still available. It provides a searchable listing of all our members: journals, publishers, individuals, corporate, and university and research institute members. Find a member About div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="1"> What we do Our mission and strategy, our commitment to supporting our members and the global scholarly publishing community. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="2"> Who we are Our Trustees, Council Members, Advisors, and COPE team, working collaboratively to create meaningful impact. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="3"> Governance Discover who we are and how we are governed. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="4"> News and opinion Read the latest insights, and perspectives from COPE and guest authors. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="5"> Events Upcoming events hosted by COPE and other publication ethics events. Find out more div]:u-border-r-0 list-item" data-nav-item-id="6"> Contact us We’re here to help you with membership queries, requests for speakers at your event, and media enquiries. Contact us 0, 'xl:u-hidden': itemsInOverflow == 0 }" :aria-expanded="overflowExpanded.toString()" x-cloak class="site-header-more-toggle u-hidden u-select-none u-bg-transparent u-text-white u-my-2 u-px-1 u-items-center u-text-large u-cursor-pointer u-font-bold u-gap-x-1"> More Search Main Menu " data-menu="" data-menu-level="0"> Guidance and tools Guidance and tools Getting started Begin your journey in publication ethics and learn the principles for best practices in scholarly publishing. Find out more Guidance Search our guidance for advice and guidelines. Search now Member tools Find further advice and resources to support your practice, and where to update your details. Find out more COPE Focus COPE Focus What is COPE Focus? Carefully chosen collections of our most important resources on a topic. View COPE Focus Discussion Discussion Topic discussions Topic discussions bring members and others in scholarly publishing together to explore solutions on publication ethics issues. Join the discussion Membership Membership Membership Understand what being a member of COPE means, and how members can manage their membership. Find out more Becoming a COPE Member Join a global community dedicated to upholding integrity in scholarly publishing. For anyone involved in research publication. Find out more Find a member Our member directory hasn't moved to our new website, but it's still available. It provides a searchable listing of all our members: journals, publishers, individuals, corporate, and university and research institute members. Find a member About About What we do Our mission and strategy, our commitment to supporting our members and the global scholarly publishing community. Find out more Who we are Our Trustees, Council Members, Advisors, and COPE team, working collaboratively to create meaningful impact. Find out more Governance Discover who we are and how we are governed. Find out more News and opinion Read the latest insights, and perspectives from COPE and guest authors. Find out more Events Upcoming events hosted by COPE and other publication ethics events. Find out more Contact us We’re here to help you with membership queries, requests for speakers at your event, and media enquiries. Contact us Login Login Search COPE: Committee on Publication Ethics Search COPE Search Search Home Guidance COPE position Authorship and AI tools Authorship and AI tools COPE position Last reviewed: 13 February 2023 Share Using your device X Facebook LinkedIn WhatsApp Email Authorship and AI tools The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools such as ChatGPT or Large Language Models in research publications is expanding rapidly. COPE joins organisations, such as WAME and the JAMA Network among others, to state that AI tools cannot be listed as an author of a paper. Authorship and contributorship Cite this as: COPE Council. COPE position - Authorship and AI - English. https://doi.org/10.24318/cCVRZBms © 2024 Committee on Publication Ethics ( CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 ) https://publicationethics.org COPE position The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools such as ChatGPT or Large Language Models in research publications is expanding rapidly. COPE joins organisations, such as WAME and the JAMA Network among others, to state that AI tools cannot be listed as an author of a paper. AI tools cannot meet the requirements for authorship as they cannot take responsibility for the submitted work. As non-legal entities, they cannot assert the presence or absence of conflicts of interest nor manage copyright and license agreements. Authors who use AI tools in the writing of a manuscript, production of images or graphical elements of the paper, or in the collection and analysis of data, must be transparent in disclosing in the Materials and Methods (or similar section) of the paper how the AI tool was used and which tool was used. Authors are fully responsible for the content of their manuscript, even those parts produced by an AI tool, and are thus liable for any breach of publication ethics. Further information Further reading Artificial intelligence in decision making COPE discussion document Artificial Intelligence COPE lightning talk AI and fake papers , COPE Forum discussion Artificial intelligence and authorship COPE editorial The challenge of AI chatbots for journal editors guest editorial Change history 20 August 2024 Version 1 published Comments Member comments will be published immediately. Non-member comments will be reviewed before publishing, to ensure they are respectful and relevant to the topic. Publication of comments does not signal endorsement by COPE. Inappropriate comments will be deleted. Please read the COPE Code of Conduct for events and discussions for expected behaviour during events and when participating in online discussions on the COPE website. Sign up or login to post comments You must be logged in to leave a comment on the COPE website. If you are not a member of COPE you can register to create a guest account. Create a guest account Login Topic discussions Open to all View all Managing conflicts of interest Conflicts of interest (COIs) are highly relevant to the credibility of the published literature. This discussion considers COIs in both pre-publication and post-publication stages. Join the discussion Geopolitical events and scholarly publishing How should journals and publishers respond to geopolitical events or national legislation which affect scholarly research? Join the discussion Emerging AI dilemmas in scholarly publishing Here we discuss key accountability measures, emerging tools and guidance to ensure ethical standards in an environment increasingly shaped by AI in 2025. Last reply 15 Sep 2025 3 comments Join the discussion View all Related guidance View all guidance Use the arrows to browse related guidance Discussion document Artificial intelligence (AI) in decision making Learn about the ways that AI can enhance decision-processes in publishing while addressing ethical concerns about accountability and transparency. Topic discussion Artificial intelligence (AI) and fake papers The rise of AI in research paper production raises concerns about integrity and fraud, prompting the need for better detection tools and strategies against authorship issues and bias. Seminar and webinar Artificial intelligence and peer review In this session, the state of artificial intelligence (AI) in peer review is discussed. Next slide Next slide View all guidance Discover COPE Focus View all COPE Focus COPE Focus brings together our most important resources on a topic, providing up to date, carefully chosen collections. COPE Focus on artificial intelligence The use of AI in the publication process is intended to increase the speed of decision making during the review process and reduce the burden on editors, reviewers, and authors. The adoption of AI raises key ethical issues around accountability, responsibility, and transparency. Read more View all COPE Focus Committee on Publication Ethics COPE (Committee on Publication Ethics) brings together all those involved in scholarly research and its publication, to strengthen the network of support, education and debate in publication ethics. Sign up for newsletter Contact us Press Follow us Policies Privacy notice Website terms and conditions Registered charity No 1123023, Registered in England and Wales, Company No 6389120, Registered office: COPE, New Kings Court, Tollgate, Chandler’s Ford, Eastleigh, Hampshire, SO53 3LG, United Kingdom © Committee on Publication Ethics 2025 500;" x-show="jumpIsVisible" x-transition.duration.500ms x-cloak> 