Updated Guidance for Author Use of AI in Medical Publication | Artificial Intelligence | JAMA | JAMA Network [Skip to Navigation] Our website uses cookies to enhance your experience. By continuing to use our site, or clicking "Continue," you are agreeing to our Cookie Policy | Continue Navigation Home Issues Multimedia News For Authors JAMA+ AI Trials Women's Health Learn More JOURNALS JAMA JAMA Network Open JAMA Cardiology JAMA Dermatology JAMA Health Forum JAMA Internal Medicine JAMA Neurology JAMA Oncology JAMA Ophthalmology JAMA Otolaryngology–Head & Neck Surgery JAMA Pediatrics JAMA Psychiatry JAMA Surgery Archives of Neurology & Psychiatry (1919-1959) JAMA Network CME Subscribe Jobs Institutions / Libraries Reprints & Permissions Search Individual Sign In Sign in Create an Account Access through your institution Sign In Search All JAMA JAMA Network Open JAMA Cardiology JAMA Dermatology JAMA Forum Archive JAMA Health Forum JAMA Internal Medicine JAMA Neurology JAMA Oncology JAMA Ophthalmology JAMA Otolaryngology–Head & Neck Surgery JAMA Pediatrics JAMA Psychiatry JAMA Surgery Archives of Neurology & Psychiatry Type text and use arrow keys to navigate suggestions Home Issues Multimedia News For Authors Home JAMA New Online Sections Close Top of Article Article Information References PDF Share Close LinkedIn X WhatsApp Facebook Threads Bluesky WeChat Copy URL Email Editorial AI in Medicine Updated Guidance for Author Use of AI in Medical Publication Annette Flanagin, RN, MA 1 ; Roy H. Perlis, MD, MSc 2,3 ; Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, PhD, MD, MAS 1 Author Affiliations Article Information 1 JAMA and JAMA Network 2 JAMA Network 3 Department of Psychiatry, Mass General Brigham, Boston, Massachusetts Cite This Citation Flanagin A , Perlis RH , Bibbins-Domingo K. Updated Guidance for Author Use of AI in Medical Publication. JAMA. Published online August 10, 2026. doi:10.1001/jama.2026.16613 Manage citations: Select Format Select format Ris (Zotero) EndNote BibTex RefWorks Reference Manager Mendeley Papers Download citation Copy citation Close Permissions View Metrics JAMA Published Online: August 10, 2026 doi: 10.1001/jama.2026.16613 related icon Related Articles multimedia icon Media figure icon Figures Close Editorial Comments Editorial Guidance on Reporting Use of AI in Research and Scholarly Publication Annette Flanagin, RN, MA; Romain Pirracchio, MD, MPH, PhD; Rohan Khera, MD, MS; et al. JAMA See More About Artificial Intelligence Digital Health Close Close Table. JAMA Network Journals Guidance for Acceptable Use of AI View Large Download (opens in new tab) Go to Figure in Article Use type Acceptable use? Comment Research Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Methods section and reporting guidance is followed and authors take full responsibility for all content See detailed guidance in the Editorial by Flanagin et al Presenting AI-generated data as if it were original research from non-AI sources No Literature search Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Methods section for reports of research and the Acknowledgment section for other types of manuscripts and that authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Manuscript preparation Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Acknowledgment section and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content See detailed guidance in the Editorial by Flanagin et al and the Box Checking grammar or spelling Yes No disclosure needed Translation Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Acknowledgment section and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Be aware of risk of entering content into public translation solutions Drafting letters and online Comments No Human insights are prioritized Drafting Opinion manuscripts No Human insights are prioritized Bibliographic references Discouraged AI tools may cause problems with the accuracy and integrity of cited references; standard reference managers may be used instead Formatting data or graphic visualization of research data or results Yes, provided that use is fully described in the figure legend and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Clinical images and illustrations No Clinical video and audio No Peer review No Entering an author’s manuscript or the reviewer’s summary of the manuscript into an external AI tool or LLM is a violation of confidentiality Author response to peer reviewer and editor comments No Author’s insights are prioritized Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping research and scientific publishing at an unprecedented pace, with extraordinary promise. We as editors embrace AI as a tool that can be helpful to researchers and authors by reducing the burdens of some tasks and improving efficiency in some contexts. However, as use of AI in scientific publishing grows exponentially, 1 - 3 so do concerns about such use. 3 - 10 Journals have adopted policies regarding appropriate and responsible use of AI by authors, reviewers, and editors, which range from encouragement of AI use, provided that such use is disclosed, to restrictions on some specific types of use. 11 - 13 Yet very low rates of disclosure of AI use by authors have been reported. 14 - 17 Reasons reported by authors for failure to disclose use of AI include concern that it may lead to biased editorial assessments and unfavorable editorial decisions and lack of understanding of journal policies of what should be disclosed. 18 Recognizing that transparency is central to the integrity of the scholarly record, recommendations for more uniform disclosure of AI use by authors may be helpful. Efforts to develop guidelines that promote responsible use and disclosure and related initiatives are underway. 19 - 22 In the interim, we offer guidance to authors for responsible use, highlighting what is permitted and not permitted and what needs to be disclosed ( Table and Box ). Table. JAMA Network Journals Guidance for Acceptable Use of AI View Large Download (opens in new tab) Go to Figure in Article Use type Acceptable use? Comment Research Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Methods section and reporting guidance is followed and authors take full responsibility for all content See detailed guidance in the Editorial by Flanagin et al Presenting AI-generated data as if it were original research from non-AI sources No Literature search Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Methods section for reports of research and the Acknowledgment section for other types of manuscripts and that authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Manuscript preparation Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Acknowledgment section and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content See detailed guidance in the Editorial by Flanagin et al and the Box Checking grammar or spelling Yes No disclosure needed Translation Yes, provided the use is fully described in the Acknowledgment section and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Be aware of risk of entering content into public translation solutions Drafting letters and online Comments No Human insights are prioritized Drafting Opinion manuscripts No Human insights are prioritized Bibliographic references Discouraged AI tools may cause problems with the accuracy and integrity of cited references; standard reference managers may be used instead Formatting data or graphic visualization of research data or results Yes, provided that use is fully described in the figure legend and authors check for accuracy and take full responsibility for all content Clinical images and illustrations No Clinical video and audio No Peer review No Entering an author’s manuscript or the reviewer’s summary of the manuscript into an external AI tool or LLM is a violation of confidentiality Author response to peer reviewer and editor comments No Author’s insights are prioritized Box Section Ref ID Box. Use of AI in Manuscript and Content Preparation and Submission Responsibility: Authors are responsible for the accuracy of all content submitted to the journal. Authors must review and confirm the accuracy of all content generated by artificial intelligence (AI), large language models (LLMs), chatbots, or similar technologies and must be accountable and take full responsibility for all content. Disclosure: Use of AI, LLMs, chatbots, or similar technologies to assist with content creation, revision, and formatting must be reported in the Acknowledgment section. References: AI, LLM, and chatbots should not be used to generate or format references because these tools may cause problems with the accuracy and integrity of cited references; standard reference managers may be used instead. Check all references for completeness, accuracy, and integrity. Opinion and Correspondence Manuscripts: Use of AI, LLM, and chatbots to draft Opinion manuscripts, Letters to the Editor, and online Comments is not permitted. Clinical Images, Illustrations, and Multimedia: Submission of clinical images and clinical illustrations created or manipulated by AI, LLM, and chatbots is not permitted unless part of formal research design or methods, which must be fully disclosed. This policy also applies to the submission of clinical video and audio files. Failure to Disclose: If incomplete disclosure or failure to disclose use of AI is detected during the editorial process or after publication, content may be rejected or subject to postpublication corrective action. If AI, LLM, or chatbots were used to assist with content creation, revision, or formatting, the following should be reported in the Acknowledgment section: Name of the AI software platform, program, or tool Version and extension numbers Manufacturer Date(s) of use A brief description of how the AI was used and on what portions of the manuscript or content Confirmation that the author(s) takes responsibility for the accuracy and integrity of the content generated Note this guidance does not apply to basic tools for checking grammar or spelling. In some cases, disclosure policies may not be sufficient to address concerns about AI-generated content that is incorrect or even fabricated (ie, hallucinated). Such policies also cannot stem the tide of AI-generated manuscript submissions with little to no scholarly or clinical value. For example, across the JAMA Network we have received manuscripts with multiple inaccurate or nonexistent references, a common problem when authors use AI to identify or format their references. Even frontier models can introduce realistic-looking references, reflecting real authors and titles that support a particular point but that do not exist. As a result, we have updated our guidance to advise authors to not use AI, including large language models (LLMs), to generate, format, or otherwise manage references. We encourage the use of standard reference managers instead, and we remind authors to check all references for completeness, accuracy, and integrity. The references are an important section of any manuscript, and authors are as responsible for this section as for any other. Our research and experience also demonstrate that author use of AI to assist with manuscript writing is often associated with specific types of articles, such as Opinion articles and Letters to the Editor. 14 We have seen marked increases in submissions of these types of articles, occasionally from the same authors, who may not have expertise in the topics they are addressing. These submissions are often formulaic and lack useful insights. 23 Thus, we have revised our guidance to authors to inform them that use of AI, including LLMs, to draft Opinion manuscripts, Letters to the Editor, and online Comments is not permitted. Use of AI tools and software to check grammar and spelling or for translation is permitted, but only after the initial text is written by humans. Authors must understand the risks of putting their content into an AI model and take full responsibility for any content changed by such tools. We also share concerns about the accuracy, clinical fidelity, and demographic representational bias in AI-generated images. 24 Therefore, we have updated our guidance regarding use of AI for clinical images and illustrations to more explicitly state that submission of clinical images and clinical illustrations created or manipulated by AI is not permitted unless part of formal research design or methods, which must be fully disclosed. Preparation of scientific images (clinical images, radiographic images, micrographs, gels, etc) for publication must preserve the integrity of the image data. Digital adjustments of brightness, contrast, or color applied uniformly to an entire image are permissible as long as these adjustments do not selectively highlight, misrepresent, obscure, or eliminate specific clinical or scientific elements in the original image. Replacement of nonclinically relevant background with a solid color in photographs is permitted. Any such adjustment or background replacement must be fully described in the figure legend along with indication of the AI or software (name and version number) used, and the original unedited photographs must be provided for editorial review. Use of AI to generate graphic visualization of research data or results is permitted, provided that the AI or software (name and version number) used is included in the figure legend. The submission of clinical video or audio created or manipulated by AI is not permitted unless part of formal research design or methods, which must be fully disclosed. Beyond these disclosure requirements and restrictions on AI use for specific types of content, our guidance reaffirms the foundational tenet that authors must be responsible for the accuracy of all content submitted to journals, whether AI generated or assisted or produced solely by humans. We recognize the rapidly evolving and extraordinary influence of AI on research and scientific publishing, with concomitant efficiencies, as well as threats and concerns. When AI is used as part of a scientific study, we ask authors to follow our previously released guidance for complete and transparent reporting of the methods and results to address potential biases, limitations, generalizability, and reproducibility. 22 Our updated guidance for appropriate use of AI in manuscript and other content preparation, and for what is not permitted, is intended to promote and preserve accuracy and integrity of publication at a time when upholding the trustworthiness of the scientific record is more critical than ever. We have included this updated guidance in the JAMA and JAMA Network journals’ Instructions for Authors, 25 and we will monitor and continue to update this guidance to best support authors and the quality and transparency of publication. Back to top Article Information Corresponding Author: Annette Flanagin, RN, MA, JAMA and JAMA Network ( [email protected] ). Published Online: August 10, 2026. doi:10.1001/jama.2026.16613 Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Perlis reported advisor fees from Circular Genomics, Genomind, Alkermes, and Atella outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported. References 1. Kusumegi K﻿, Yang X﻿, Ginsparg P﻿, de Vaan M﻿, Stuart T﻿, Yin Y﻿. Scientific production in the era of large language models. ﻿ Science . 2025;390(6779):1240-1243. doi: 10.1126/science.adw3000 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 2. Naddaf M﻿. How much of the scientific literature is generated by AI? ﻿ Nature . Published online May 5, 2026. doi: 10.1038/d41586-025-03504-8 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 3. Society for Scholarly Publishing. Pulse Check report: AI in scholarly publishing. Published January 1, 2026. Accessed August 4, 2026. https://customer.sspnet.org/SSP/ssp/resources/Pulse-Poll-January-2026.aspx 4. Resnik DB﻿, Hosseini M﻿. Hallucinated citations produced by generative artificial intelligence may constitute research misconduct when citations function as data in scholarly papers. ﻿ Account Res . Published online March 15, 2026. doi: 10.1080/08989621.2026.2645390 Google Scholar Crossref 5. Ng JY﻿, Bhavsar D﻿, Dhanvanthry N﻿, et al. Attitudes and perceptions towards the use of artificial intelligence chatbots in medical journal peer review: a protocol for a large-scale, international cross-sectional survey. ﻿ Eur Sci Ed . 2025;51:e159921. doi: 10.3897/ese.2025.e159921 Google Scholar Crossref 6. Carobene A﻿, Padoan A﻿, Cabitza F﻿, Banfi G﻿, Plebani M﻿. Rising adoption of artificial intelligence in scientific publishing: evaluating the role, risks, and ethical implications in paper drafting and review process. ﻿ Clin Chem Lab Med . 2023;62(5):835-843. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2023-1136 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 7. Suchak T﻿, Aliu AE﻿, Harrison C﻿, Zwiggelaar R﻿, Geifman N﻿, Spick M﻿. Explosion of formulaic research articles, including inappropriate study designs and false discoveries, based on the NHANES US national health database. ﻿ PLoS Biol . 2025;23(5):e3003152. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3003152 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 8. Hosseini M﻿, Horbach SPJM﻿. Fighting reviewer fatigue or amplifying bias? considerations and recommendations for use of ChatGPT and other large language models in scholarly peer review. ﻿ Res Integr Peer Rev . 2023;8(1):4. doi: 10.1186/s41073-023-00133-5 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 9. Lin Z﻿. Hidden prompts in manuscripts exploit AI-assisted peer review. ﻿ arXiv . Preprint posted online July 8, 2025. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2507.06185 Google Scholar 10. Topaz M﻿, Roguin N﻿, Gupta P﻿, Zhang Z﻿, Peltonen LM﻿. Fabricated citations: an audit across 2.5 million biomedical papers. ﻿ Lancet . 2026;407(10541):1779-1781. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(26)00603-3 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 11. Flanagin A﻿, Kendall-Taylor J﻿, Bibbins-Domingo K﻿. Guidance for authors, peer reviewers, and editors on use of AI, language models, and chatbots. ﻿ JAMA . 2023;330(8):702-703. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.12500 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 12. Perlis RH﻿, Christakis DA﻿, Bressler NM﻿, et al. Artificial intelligence in peer review. ﻿ JAMA . 2025;334(17):1520-1522. doi: 10.1001/jama.2025.15827 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 13. International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. Recommendations for the conduct, reporting, editing, and publication of scholarly work in medical journals: use of artificial intelligence in publishing. Updated January 2026. Accessed June 25, 2026. https://www.icmje.org/recommendations/browse/artificial-intelligence/ 14. Perlis RH﻿, Flanagin A﻿, Kendall-Taylor J﻿, Berkwits M﻿, Bibbins-Domingo K﻿. Author disclosure of use of AI in submissions to 13 JAMA Network journals. ﻿ JAMA . 2026;335(8):717-719. doi: 10.1001/jama.2025.25300 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 15. AlFayyad I﻿, Zeegers MP﻿, Bouter L﻿, Macdonald H﻿, Schroter S﻿. Self-disclosed use of AI in research submissions to BMJ journals. ﻿ JAMA . 2026;335(8):719-721. doi: 10.1001/jama.2025.25688 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 16. Malani PN﻿, Ross JS﻿. AI use in research and the need for continued guidance. ﻿ JAMA . 2026;335(8):673. doi: 10.1001/jama.2025.26845 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 17. Jonah Barrett D﻿, Heng R﻿, Perchik JD﻿. Documenting disclosure: limited reporting of generative AI usage in radiology research manuscripts. ﻿ Acad Radiol . 2025;32(10):5686-5692. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2025.06.057 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 18. BaHammam AS﻿. The transparency paradox: why researchers avoid disclosing AI assistance in scientific writing. ﻿ Nat Sci Sleep . 2025;17:2569-2574. doi: 10.2147/NSS.S568375 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 19. Wiley. Using AI tools in your research: a guide for research authors, editors, and reviewers. Accessed June 25, 2026. https://www.wiley.com/en-us/publish/article/ai-guidelines/ 20. STM. Recommendations for a classification of AI use in academic manuscript preparation. Published September 2025. Accessed June 25, 2026. https://s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/stm.offloadmedia/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/23020709/STM_AI_Classification_Recs_19_Sept2025-1.pdf 21. International Science Council. AI disclosure in research: towards a global reporting standard. Accessed June 25, 2026. https://council.science/our-work/ai-disclosure-in-research/ 22. Flanagin A﻿, Pirracchio R﻿, Khera R﻿, Berkwits M﻿, Hswen Y﻿, Bibbins-Domingo K﻿. Reporting use of AI in research and scholarly publication—JAMA Network guidance. ﻿ JAMA . 2024;331(13):1096-1098. doi: 10.1001/jama.2024.3471 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 23. Rasmussen TE﻿. Preserving relational letter writing in the era of artificial intelligence. ﻿ JAMA Surg . Published online June 24, 2026. doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2026.2165 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 24. Alon L﻿, Shoval DH﻿, Levkovich I﻿. Bias, representation, and clinical fidelity in AI-generated images for medical education: a systematic literature review. ﻿ NPJ Digit Med . 2026;9(1):469. doi: 10.1038/s41746-026-02608-3 PubMed Google Scholar Crossref 25. JAMA Network. JAMA: instructions for authors. Updated July 29, 2026. Accessed August 4, 2026. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/pages/instructions-for-authors Editorial Updated Guidance for Author Use of AI in Medical Publication Editorial Guidance on Reporting Use of AI in Research and Scholarly Publication Annette Flanagin, RN, MA; Romain Pirracchio, MD, MPH, PhD; Rohan Khera, MD, MS; et al. JAMA See More About Artificial Intelligence Digital Health View Full Text Download PDF Button To Top X JAMA Content Home New Online Current Issue Podcasts Coronavirus (COVID-19) Q&A Clinical Reviews Editors' Summary Medical News Author Interviews JAMAevidence: JAMA Guide to Statistics and Methods JAMAevidence: The Rational Clinical Examination JAMAevidence: Users' Guides to the Medical Literature Journal Information For Authors JAMA Editors Editors & Publishers RSS Contact Us JN Learning / CME Store Apps Jobs Institutions Reprints & Permissions Subscribe Go JAMA Network Publications JAMA Network Home Our Publications Sites Art and Images in Psychiatry Evidence-Based Medicine: An Oral History Fishbein Fellowship Genomics and Precision Health JAMA Forum Archive Topics and Collections War and Health USPSTF Recommendation Statements Primary Care Behavioral Counseling Interventions to Support Breastfeeding Screening for Food Insecurity Screening for Osteoporosis to Prevent Fractures Screening and Supplementation for Iron Deficiency and Iron Deficiency Anemia During Pregnancy Interventions for High Body Mass Index in Children and Adolescents Interventions to Prevent Falls in Community-Dwelling Older Adults Screening for Breast Cancer Primary Care Interventions to Prevent Child Maltreatment Screening for Speech and Language Delay and Disorders in Children Information Events and Conferences For Authors For Institutions & Librarians For Advertisers For Subscription Agents For Employers & Job Seekers For the Media Online Commenting Policy Public Access and Open Access Policy Statement on Offensive Content JAMA Network Products AMA Manual of Style AMA Style Insider JAMA Network CME JAMAevidence Peer Review Congress Help Subscriptions & Renewals Manage Emails Update My Address Support Center My Account JAMA Career Center Physician Job Listings © 2026 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement | Cookie Settings . × Access your subscriptions Sign in | personal account Access through your institution Add or change institution Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Purchase access Subscribe to journal Get full journal access for 1 year Buy article Get unlimited access and a printable PDF ($45.00)— Sign in or create a free account Rent article Rent this article from DeepDyve Close Access your subscriptions Sign in | personal account Access through your institution Add or change institution Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Purchase access Subscribe to journal Get full journal access for 1 year Buy article Get unlimited access and a printable PDF ($45.00)— Sign in or create a free account Rent article Rent this article from DeepDyve Close Sign in to access free PDF Sign in | personal account Access through your institution Add or change institution Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Close Save your search Sign in | personal account Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Purchase access Subscribe now Close Customize your interests Sign in | personal account Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Create a personal account or sign in to: Register for email alerts with links to free full-text articles Access PDFs of free articles Manage your interests Save searches and receive search alerts Privacy Policy Close Make a comment Sign in | personal account Free access to newly published articles Create a free personal account To register for email alerts, access free PDF, and more Create a personal account or sign in to: Register for email alerts with links to free full-text articles Access PDFs of free articles Manage your interests Save searches and receive search alerts Privacy Policy Close