ICMJE | Recommendations | Preparing a Manuscript for Submission to a Medical Journal ICMJE | International Committee of Medical Journal Editors Recommendations Browse I. About the Recommendations A. Purpose of the Recommendations B. Who Should Use the Recommendations? C. History of the Recommendations II. Roles & Responsibilities A. Defining the Role of Authors and Contributors B. Disclosure of Financial and Non-Financial Relationships and Activities, and Conflicts of Interest C. Responsibilities in the Submission and Peer-Review Process D. Journal Owners and Editorial Freedom E. Protection of Research Participants III. Publishing & Editorial Issues A. Corrections and Version Control B. Scientific Misconduct C. Copyright D. Overlapping Publications E. Correspondence F. Fees G. Supplements, Theme Issues, and Special Series H. Sponsorships and Partnerships I. Electronic Publishing J. Advertising K. Journals and the Media L. Clinical Trials IV. Manuscript Preparation and Submission A. Preparing a Manuscript for Submission to a Medical Journal B. Sending the Manuscript to the Journal V. Use of Artificial Intelligence in Publishing A. Use of AI by Authors B. Use of AI by Reviewers C. Editors' Role in Ensuring Responsible Use of AI Translations Archives Subscribe to Changes Disclosure of Interest Translations About ICMJE Contact ICMJE Other Resources FAQs Clinical Trials Registration ICMJE Membership ICMJE Recommendations ("The Uniform Requirements") Disclosure Forms Miscellaneous News & Editorials Home Recommendations Browse Use of Artificial Intelligence in Publishing Editors’ Role in Ensuring Responsible Use of AI C. Editors’ Role in Ensuring Responsible Use of AI Many forms of use can be very helpful, especially for those authoring content not in their primary language. Nonetheless, editors should query authors and authors should disclose if and how LLM and AI were used. For example, using AI to spell-check and correct grammar is generally viewed as acceptable whereas using AI for content generation must be considered in the context of the work. In all use cases, authors should check the accuracy and validity of their content before submission. Editors should be vigilant that authors may not disclose AI use when queried. Editors and reviewers should not upload submitted manuscripts into AI systems where confidentiality cannot be assured without authors’ explicit permission. Journals should have a policy for the use of AI in the review process and should make all editors, reviewers, and authors aware of this journal policy. Journals should remind editors and reviewers that manuscripts submitted to journals are privileged communications and that uploading of the manuscript to software or other AI technologies where confidentiality cannot be assured is prohibited except with authors’ permission. If journals use AI for copy-editing and other production purposes, they should disclose this in their information to authors. Journals may also be using AI/LLM for ancillary content (e.g., podcasts, educational questions, patient summaries). Editors are responsible for ensuring the accuracy and validity of this content. Recommendations Browse I. About the Recommendations A. Purpose of the Recommendations B. Who Should Use the Recommendations? C. History of the Recommendations II. Roles & Responsibilities A. Defining the Role of Authors and Contributors B. Disclosure of Financial and Non-Financial Relationships and Activities, and Conflicts of Interest C. Responsibilities in the Submission and Peer-Review Process D. Journal Owners and Editorial Freedom E. Protection of Research Participants III. Publishing & Editorial Issues A. Corrections and Version Control B. Scientific Misconduct C. Copyright D. Overlapping Publications E. Correspondence F. Fees G. Supplements, Theme Issues, and Special Series H. Sponsorships and Partnerships I. Electronic Publishing J. Advertising K. Journals and the Media L. Clinical Trials IV. Manuscript Preparation and Submission A. Preparing a Manuscript for Submission to a Medical Journal B. Sending the Manuscript to the Journal V. Use of Artificial Intelligence in Publishing A. Use of AI by Authors B. Use of AI by Reviewers C. Editors' Role in Ensuring Responsible Use of AI Translations Archives Subscribe to Changes Disclosure of Interest Translations About ICMJE Contact ICMJE Other Resources FAQs Clinical Trials Registration ICMJE Membership ICMJE Recommendations ("The Uniform Requirements") Disclosure Forms Miscellaneous News & Editorials Keep up-to-date Request to receive an E-mail when the Recommendations are updated. Subscribe to Changes © 2026 International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. All Rights Reserved. Site designed and hosted by Annals of Internal Medicine / American College of Physicians .